---
layout: post
title: meeting 02/14/2012
---

Hi all,

We had a greet meeting yesterday night (or afternoon for others). I'm trying to summarize it here. 
- benoît

# Topics: 
- WIP 
- Discussion about the design of refuge product. Do we provides our own API 
  or just hack around CouchDB handlers? 
- Couchjs: do we keep couchjs or go for Emonk. 
- State of geocouch & what need to be done 
- CSV support 
- Windows release 
- GSOC and Creation of an organization 
- Release deadline 

# Summary 

## WIP 
This week will be pushed the node management and the 
client blancket. We are also in sync with the couchdb project modulo the work of tilgovi on couchjs (multi file support & tracebacks) 

## Design of refuge 
Refuge aims to be a decentralized dataplatform working on any device where you can create dataset, mix/merge them, edit them, render them, replicate and exchange them .... 

Data nodes in Refuge are fully decentralized and will exist inside small 
worlds. You are abble to query any node remotely and merge the results 
locally and more.

We are playing with the concept since a long time and it became clear 
we couldn't achieve our goals by just hacking the couchdb API:

- It takes time to have it upstream and we lost some time to do it. 
- The current security implementation isn't enough for our needs 
- We need an API that handle all the decentralization layer 
- It's easier to work on our own API while keeping the compatibility 
  with couchdb on database level

It has been confirmed that we are building our own HTTP API and embedding 
couchdb inside Refuge. This API allows us to manage our own security level 
and manage versionning. For now the DB api will be compatible with couchdb. The 
replication too. Details of the API will be implemented and discussed 
on the ML this week. 

## Couchjs 
It has been decided to replace couchjs by a new view server based on 
emonk. Advantages are the following: 

- It will work on mobiles. Due to the limitations on mobiles and in 
  particurlaly IOS and Android mobiles you can't use couchjs. 
- Using emonk everywhere will simplify the code 
- With emonk we don't need to launch multiple OS processes which can been 
  slow. It also remove 1 step in serialization/deserialization. 

## Geocouch 
Geocouch has been fully refactored to support the new couch_index API by 
Capnemo. Capnemo told us that he will fully document the geocouch for the 
release. Last patches from couchbase will be ported. In the process geocouch 
will be renamed refuge_spatial. This rename is needed since it 
become clear that the work we have done won't be included upstream and 
we don't want to wait for it. From now we will start to add to it more 
features like the KNN queries and more. 

## CSV 
Capnemo wrote ecsv sometimes ago which is abble to parse a CSV in a 
streaming fashion and send the results in a database. 
This work will be pushed in refuge and a new DB handler wil appear 
allowying anyone to upload a CSV to a database, parse it and eventually 
transform it while it's come using a function. 
eg. :

    PUT /path/to/dbname/_csv?transform=ddoc/funcname&delimirter=, 

where a function will take a row and return a new one or nothing. The 
result is stored as a doc. 

## Windows release 
fairwind is working on it and is doing an awesome work on that. After studying 
the work of dch (which was really helpful), he decided to adapt it to use it 
with rebar. At the end the refuge build will be based on rebar and some 
custom plugins. See the previous mail he has done about it. 

## GSOC and Creation of an organization 
Fernando Gomez on the ml was thinking we could apply to GSOC. But it 
seems we need to create an organization first. This need to be checked. 
If we need to create an organization, it will require some work to 
determine which form to choose and then create it. Until someone can do the 
 work it seem difficult to make it before the deadline of 03/09 . But why not. 
If someone can help on that he's welcome. 

## Release 
- An initial release will be done next week.